I'm on the line with captain Weiner or
is that name already taken how shall I
uh shall I refer to you great I can call
you captain for short um so your
channels people don't know if you just
glance at your channel let's say a lot
of the emphasis is on fitness and health
and I'd say you're taking like like like
myself you're someone who not only
doesn't pretend to be a professional
athlete athlete you emphasize the extent
to which you're a normal person and not
a professional athlete in the extent to
which your advice is compatible with the
normal lives of normal people of
full-time jobs would that would that be
fair to say or so anyway obviously you
have a list of questions you want to ask
me which is great but I mean I'm
assuming you turned the corner at some
point and decided that you wanted to
paint a bunch of slogans on the wall of
you're the host of your garage and and
set up a home gym you know can I just
ask what was the inspiration for that
specifically you know just because most
people do work out at a gym or you know
or don't don't work out at all so what
what for you what made you interested in
making that kind of commitment all right
so like somewhat of an inspiration from
Tony Horton of p90x and Scooby of the
earlier years of YouTube where he would
tell you that Fitness is free and that
you don't have to go to a gym you can
get fit at home but I remember that guy
I remember that guy yeah go on it's
become more of a convenience thing where
I don't want to carry a new set of
clothes I don't want to drive ten
minutes to the gym I just want to work
out get my stuff done go back upstairs
take a shower and be on my way right but
as far as like the inspiration for doing
these kinds of workouts it's nothing
special and I feel like most people need
to understand that you're not gonna get
a six pack in three months right I mean
if you do like crazy genetics or
whatever you know whatever the reason is
good I'll be eating but I'm just trying
to be realistic here and that if you
want
allistic result is gonna take a long
time I eat one year or more right so I
just want to remind people that we're
average people
some of us below average it takes us a
while to do one pull-up it takes other
people a long time to do five push-ups
if you can't look up a standard 135
pounds that's fine just know just show
up you don't have to show up and go or
just show up and eventually you'll get
to where you need to be well I've just
gone through that process with my
girlfriend Melissa I might as well have
been her personal trainer for the last
year and a half or coming up on two
years now when she first met me she had
literally never lifted any weight in her
life she never had any fun yeah nothing
and her muscular development was at a
really really low level in terms of just
being so one of the exercise of a fan of
is the upright row people man but it's a
very simple exercise where you're
lifting the bar and so when we were
starting with exercise like that she
couldn't do one wrap with the bar she
couldn't really do arm curls with five
film weights you know and so we were
really starting from zero we really was
like rehabilitating a disabled person in
some ways and but the difference is
she's not disabled you know very rapidly
she did make progress I think she is
still not able to do one pushup
or one chin up however you know those
hair does her body wood exercises but
yeah I've seen her come a long long way
so that's that was interesting I never
had any experience like that before I've
never been anybody's personal trainer
and yeah I would say the one thing I
wanna say before we move on I don't
think this is gonna be really a fitness
related discussion but you know I think
it's really easy for people to say that
exercise and life should not be two
separate things the exercise should just
be part of your life but in the 21st
century that's true for a very small
percentage of the population so you've
watched my channel as I always mentioned
that I used to live in Laos and Cambodia
I've lived in other places that get
mentioned less often I very rarely say
oh I used to live in Hong Kong it's also
true anyway um you know I did meet
people in Laos who really had such
physically tough jobs like really really
hard work in agriculture
one guy who literally carried sacks of
concrete on his shoulder for a living
who built up unbelievable physical
strain doing those jobs you know and you
could even tell when you shook their
hand the amount of strength in the
forearm you know was up there but I mean
today in 2018 that that's you know in in
Canada or the United States or Western
Europe an insignificant number of people
have exercised as part of their jobs and
part of their daily life right so we
have to make these kinds of decisions
whether the right thing for you is to
have a gym at home get some weights or
whatever or you know I've had times in
my life either times my life when I
worked out using five liter bottles of
water
I had no gym I had no way of working out
and I'd get some big jugs of water and I
do you know different kinds of presses
and lifts with those and there'd be a
small mountain or something nearby that
run up and down that mountain when I was
just living in China now there was a
staircase there are some videos showing
this is this big big staircase leading
up to the university it's really just
like a decorative staircase and I'd
repeatedly run up and down those those
stairs stone stairs you know you know I
find I find ways to work in it but yeah
but again the point being I'm not an
athlete I'm not an Instagram model you
know right that's this is yeah this is
this is my middle age I'm now 40 years
old but yeah I don't look like any of my
relatives when they were 40 years old
she just looked back one generation look
at any of my blood relations what they
look like at 40 it's a huge huge
difference so and I think a very large
majority of the population well those
that are just right I don't think it's
what you real Montag on this interview I
mean that all of this is happening in
the shadow of the the steroids
phenomenon I was gonna say steroids
epidemic but um you know when I was in
in China so I don't lift that heavy
because I don't I don't want to push my
luck and get injured
currently i benchpress 230 pounds i'm
gonna repeat not kilograms pounds
because i'm in canada 2 or 30 pounds but
you know when i was in china there were
these guys who were lifting 1/4 and 1/5
of what i lift like really really light
lifts and with these huge round muscles
and you know i just thought what's
what's going on with that and you know i
was working up so regularly the geometry
is that oh they're doing something else
and they're working I'm not seeing like
you know like when I'm when I'm not here
they must be really lifting heavy
weights it's like and no I mean it you
know again I saw the same guys
repeatedly over over time it's it's
steroids I mean that's that's what it is
all right when you're on juice you can
lift 50 pounds and still have those
those kinds of big big projecting
bulging muscles and that's really what's
called the movie star or look is you
know people who don't push the limits
with steroids people are not
bodybuilders if you got those results
and yeah as soon as I figured that out I
realized why steroids are such an
epidemic the Stara the stereotype is
like an Olympic athlete with with
steroids you know working really really
hard and then using steroids to get an
extra 5% out of your performance but
that's not the epidemic the epidemic is
millions of people using steroids and
being lazy that's appealing that's the
feeling using steroids and not working
out hard and getting getting those kinds
of results so yeah and for the next
generation I mean it's it's sad but I
can't I can't imagine the genie going
back in the bottle I think like like
cocaine and heroin this is gonna become
a permanent part of our drug landscape
so yeah going forward I think that's the
other challenge with Fitness being part
of life right is is a commitment one way
or another to be clean and what that
what that really means
yeah way into what we're gonna be
discussing and if I'm a I'm going to be
pulling up the the topics of discussion
for today so for those of you guys that
have made it this far I'm probably going
to timestamp all of these but so that
they want to skip through or don't want
to hear anything else the topics of
discussion for today are going to be
effective vegan activism and
not effective or ineffective vegan
activism the other topic of discussion
we're going to be talking about is
carnivore dieters in specific vegetable
police and kasumi Chris a couple others
might show up to my favorite people
discussion mental and physical health
issues among vegans and it's just
something for a little bit of fun maybe
a little controversy social and
psychological effects of video yeah sure
so I hope you guys make it through we
don't know how long this discussion
might last it could be an hour two maybe
even three but we're just going to see
how this rolls the timestamps will be in
the description and I said why don't you
kick us off since you have a lot of
knowledge on vegan activism seeing that
you are you've been around the scene
yeah and you know what good and bad
looks like well I remember I had I had a
conversation with Isaac recently I saw
Isaac's YouTube name is ask yourself and
he was talking about direct action
everywhere so I think there's a playlist
of like 30 videos criticizing direct
action everywhere I can check but it is
one of the playlist with the most videos
of any post on my channel I remember
something Isaac said to me very
unpretentiously a very down-to-earth way
which is I think true both of us he said
you know look I so I think that both you
and I are very reluctant to just say
[Music]
this is bad for veganism it's so
intellectually lazy it's kind of too
easy to just dismiss something as being
quote unquote bad for veganism and we're
critical of other youtubers when they do
that so you really have been in the past
that was more like 2016 used to be that
YouTube channels were piled up with
people pointing the finger and saying
this person is bad for veganism and
people have done it to me of course
people point the finger at me and said
that I'm bad for veganism because
basically I asked some inconvenient
philosophical questions and sometimes
come to difficult and conflicting
answers to them um but sure there is
some point in which you have to start
making judgments about what is good and
bad for veganism and ultimately what is
a waste of your time
so you know direct action everywhere is
the easy case study to point to for
looking at
effective and ineffective activism and
the irony is they were founded by guy
named Wayne Siong they were founded with
the resolution to scientifically
advanced vegan activism by examining
what works and what doesn't with social
science methods and that they would
throw away the vestiges of the past they
would throw away standing on a street
corner with pamphlets and free vegan
muffins giving muffins and pamphlets to
people to spread veganism that way that
their research and new scientific
findings we're going to open up the
golden path to a brighter future in
vegan activism now what we've seen as
they pursue down that golden path our
many aberrations including you know
trying to interrupt Bernie Sanders when
Bernie Sanders is doing a public rally
trying to interrupt Hillary Clinton
trying to run on to a baseball field
with a banner telling people to go vegan
and then immediately being pounced on by
the police these are all real examples
them getting arrested and beat up trying
to disrupt disrupt is their key term
rodeos as I say baseball games public
events political events that have
nothing to do with them so we've seen
them go down a bumpy road of showing us
all the things not to do
in vkontakte vism so that's one case
study where you know we're examining
these things and asking these questions
you know in that case I think you're far
enough over the line in a number of ways
that you know you can say look this is a
bad for veganism and if my own sister or
brother were asking me for advice if
they wanted to join direct action
everywhere I would really urge them not
to now you know other other discussions
on the channel though are not as black
and white start don't worry you have to
talk what he's gonna say but you know in
my discussion but contrast my discussion
of what is and isn't effective about the
so-called cube of truth movement you
know that's more in a gray area were
ultimately my conclusion is this is a
waste of your time this is poorly
organized the particular guy in charge
is no good but these problems are not so
fundamental direct action everywhere
they're also questions of them
breaking laws and doing things that are
illegal and getting themselves put in
prison and facing criminal charges I do
not think anyone going to jail is an
effective form of activism so we are
more talking with those hard issues and
those issues don't exist in the context
of offering criticism of the cube of
truth method so yeah that's all I'd say
not all of this criticism is equally
loaded but precisely and engaging those
discussions I think everyone involved
everyone in the audience everyone is
going to ask those questions along with
me they end up looking at their own
lives what's possible and practicable
what they can do to save the planet to
do something positive for the vegan
movement and we I think people come up
with new and creative approaches because
they engage in that critique so I like
the fact that you brought up the
discussion you had with Isaac because
you guys are not quick to point a finger
you think twice before you criticize
judge or even you know a little a person
that's giving I think that's one of
those things like okay so you brought up
the case study right well that's
important for the audience to know what
I kind of wanted to hear was more of
like your personal thoughts on where
vegan activism is today and like some
examples that you see that you believe
are ineffective or effective because I'm
gonna I'm willing to provide an example
from me but that's going to be later on
but you won't you mention in many of
your videos now there are some people
that take these permanent vacations we
already receive donations from their
supporters on patreon and they take that
money and they spend it you know on
vacation on specific foods when they
could be donating it to a different
charity or they could be using their
resources a lot better yeah or or then
you have the opposite side where there
are people I think it was in the
earthling Edie vegan March in London
where he said that they're gonna take no
days off that's right I remember that no
days off right
College one I mean it was like really
funny but at the same time it was scary
because you have these people telling
you that they're gonna take no days off
and then there's the people who taking
every day off of it that way yes look I
mean the the easy example of something
good I can point to they're not perfect
is PCRM so that is an acronym for
Physicians Committee for Responsible
medicine so when people say they want a
concrete example of something within
veganism that's positive I point to PCRM
and I say look what we need are five or
six other organizations like PCRM so
I'll say a little bit more about why
that is in a moment will you outside of
veganism I also point to groups like
Mothers Against Drunk Driving and I
point to the history the historical
success of the gay rights movement so
within my lifetime those are two really
successful really powerful you know
movements and type types of
organizations in one case it's a unique
organization and they don't use tax at
tactics like direct action everywhere
Mothers Against Drunk Driving does not
show up at a beer store and start
screaming at people and saying don't you
realize my son died in a car accident or
this kind of thing they don't put on
this kind of spectacle they don't
interrupt a baseball game and say how
can you people drink alcohol don't you
know what causes brain damage
by the way alcohol literally causes
brain damage just to mention there
actually is a sense of urgency and you
know I have you know I just met you I
have my father add nine kids
so I have you know brothers who some of
them I think were born about as smart as
I am and after many years of use of
drugs and alcohol moderate use none of
them are considered alcoholics they're
not so bright anymore so you know I mean
the the the toll that alcohol takes is
very real and I'm you know I'm partly
joking but it's not hard to imagine an
anti alcohol movement that would use
some of these tactics that vegans are
infamous for frankly the people ridicule
us for it's easy to imagine me
so passionate about you know getting rid
of alcohol or drunk driving specifically
do that so these are highly professional
highly effective example sorry so I
should say so I mentioned mother's
cancer of driving I mentioned PCRM and
within the gay rights movement I'm not
talking about people marching naked and
throwing parties in this kind of thing
especially I think it's important to
recognize there was a professionalized
and legal element of that struggle in
that challenge which we are really
lacking in veganism by contrast now
that's not the whole I mean you know gay
rights involved also did involve a lot
of naked partying and it's this kind of
thing there were other elements but
that's not particularly what I'm what
I'm alluding to here I point out in my
video on community you know it was this
phenomenon where you know if the Chief
of Police made homophobic remarks the
newspapers would know to phone up and
we're gonna get is a ssin there were
these various gay lobby members and get
their response to the homophobic remarks
made by the police commissioner's line
that was ongoing for decades but the
existence of those organizations those
more professional gay rights
organizations and the fact that the
newspaper knew to call them and that
their opinion mattered that's a kind of
legitimacy and level of organization
that veganism is largely lacking the
exception the easy exception unit being
PCRM so PCRM are engaged in lobbying the
government on a variety of issues some
of them are more ethically defined
animal rights issues some of them are
more clearly defined in terms of science
and their form of activism does involve
paying lawyers to take people to court
it does involve you know challenging
misinformation that promotes the dairy
industry and egg industry is healthy and
that kind of thing so I think that's a
disruption of a very different kind and
disputing whether or not government
guidelines on diet and that kind of
thing are healthy but they do actually
include vegan ethics in their remit and
this came up in a very different
discussion we're talking about race and
ethnicity within veganism but they are
ultimately a somewhat elitist
organization I am you know III I'm
noting that as something for criticism
or something we're not that we should
criticize PCRF
that creates opportunities for other
people do this PCRM is predominantly
white wealthy people with diplomas in
the medical sciences
well how about you know an organization
taking on the same issues in the same
way that's predominantly Chinese people
from Los Angeles I was just in Los
Angeles
there are suburbs there that are 40%
Chinese how about an organization that's
predominantly Hispanic people from San
Diego and so on and so forth there were
a million other constituencies that
could get organized to make a difference
this way on one issue or another
how about or an organization like PCRM
that just deals with leather health
impacts of leather ecology of leather or
even the economics of leather and saying
hey as a society we need to transition
away from being a leather based society
and again regardless of the ethnicity or
affluence of the people involved that
you could have the founding members
leading could be former workers in the
leather industry leather tanning
industry who know ho toxic and dangerous
the chemicals are you know whatever
could be drawn from any stroke but my
point is not to say that it's a bad
thing that PCRM is predominantly of this
wealthy white character but the point
out there are opportunities to get
organized and give a voice to a lot of
other segments of vegan society or even
just ecologically concerned society you
could organize a movement that was
entirely fishermen or or X fishermen
dealing you know if you can approach to
the fishing industry and devastation in
the ecological devastation of the oceans
and that might be predominantly white
people on the east coast of Canada and
Halifax or something you know again my
point is not to simplify a kind of
ethnic stereotype here but to recognize
you know the kind of nuanced local and
global challenge that we're facing
moving forward that's the most positive
answer I can give you and it would be a
lot you know be a lot easier for me to
give a kind of cynical response and say
that I don't see anything positive
happening anywhere there's obviously
it's a lot easier to find bad than it is
to find good but people that are really
putting in an effort but you know
results because it's easy to like I mean
I know there was that whole huge debacle
like what two three years ago with
freelee and durianrider
you know I mean I'm not gonna sit there
and say I never liked them because they
did make people go vegan so at the very
least I have to give them credit to that
but as far as like their diets are
concerned as far as like the message
that they're spreading across it's
coming off real cult-like and I don't
feel like that's very positive it's not
to say that it's negative but I don't
see it helping the vegan movement and
like we need to address you know issues
like that coming into the future well
right but but also I think it's also now
kind of over I mean it ended in failure
I mean that's you know again I'm not
saying that in a boastful way but thanks
yeah I would say it's now over I mean it
fizzled out and say 2017 the metaphor
it's a tiny shadow of its of its former
self so it was huge in 2015-2016 and
then fell apart and you know this this
wouldn't be said about other moments but
if we really want to go big
the single biggest in the world is
what's known in America is the Loving
Hut the Loving Hut is the world's
largest chain of vegan restaurants and
it is indeed run by a new religion I'm
saying new religion and not cult
it's run by a new religion which is
called the supreme master Ching hai
foundation or supreme master Ching hai
group the followers of supreme master
Ching hai which doesn't sound like a
cult at all no it's a new religion so I
think a lot of people if you just go to
Wikipedia or just do a little bit of
looking into who is behind Loving Hut
you're gonna be a bit shocked um
Loving Hut is huge it's here to stay
it's lasting they have at least two
cable TV channels or satellite TV
channels but they're real like the
24-hour broadcasting channels in many
languages so you know they have that
they have a kind of footprint the
frankly it's way more impressive than
anything peda has ever done People for
the Ethical Treatment of Wayne People
for the Ethical Treatment of Animals is
big but the loving hut hut group the
supreme master Ching hai group is much
bigger and emotionally the
Specht of what they do that appeals to
me most is the anti-war advocacy so
they've linked veganism which is natural
but different people link it to
different things they've linked it to
criticism of how many people are being
killed in Iraq and Afghanistan and Syria
and all these conflicts so they link it
to an anti-war message which is can be
very emotionally powerful in terms of
watching their their video propagandist
now unfortunately their beliefs are
magical and insane I do not believe in
breatharianism I do not believe that you
know they believe in a whole crazy
scheme of karma and reincarnation and
that magically the reason why you don't
starve to death when you're on this
breatharian diet is that there were gods
and I think if it was the ninth level of
heaven or the seventh level of heaven
who put a tube down and magically feed
you and you know they they believe in a
whole you know constellation of crazy
stuff and this is you know I'm not
making this up you can watch on their
own TV channel you can see what the
supreme master herself says what it is
their religion consists of so that's if
you want to go big that's big and then
if you want to go small I mean I do
think it's worthwhile to point to some
of these other youtubers and these
people on YouTube and say hey this is to
quote the rapper 50 cent you've been
hustling a long time and you ain't got
nothing so you know somebody really
inoffensive like Ryan and Angie from
happy healthy vegan they do offend me
but whatever I've had my conflict with
them okay well you guys had all the
money and all these advantages being
based in LA yeah this audience has done
this what have you accomplished in the
last five years and now what are you
gonna accomplish in the next five years
I think we all know the answer is
nothing unnatural vegan many of these
other people have criticized I really
think they're they're going nowhere even
though they have a kind of veneer of
success so those are problems and I
think that comment I made would also
apply to freelee and durianrider there's
a lot there are a lot of other things
wrong with freelee and durianrider also
but you know they they briefly had this
movement organized in Chiangmai I was
there it was only a few dozen people but
that's all
and so on so again what did they
accomplish in the last five years what
are they going to accomplish in the next
five years it's it's pretty grim
particulars and I understand that there
is a smaller scale of things you bring
up Angie and Ryan and you bring up
unnatural vegan now here's the deal with
what I see with them right like again I
take no offense because I think that
it's important that we learned from all
aspects sure we might disagree on some
points it's always nice to hear the
other side but the question that gets
raised with these particular youtubers
and there's many like them right you see
them all the time and honestly it's kind
of crunchy because you see them do these
what I eat in a day videos they play the
same music they're eating the same foods
and they're just basically advocating
their lifestyle right which is fine
there's no harm in that you have every
right to do so but as a vegan like the
question that I wanted to ask is is
being vegan enough right like we look at
it as a social political philosophical
movement to end all of animal
exploitation and cruelty and I know that
we're doing our part by not eating
animals or a tear you know they're
byproducts like milk and cheese and
whatnot but is that enough or should we
be taking more of a stance right so you
see how in phrasing the question you are
input the answer no a core of course is
not enough and we would say the same
about gay rights this is a great
occasions is it enough to just be gay is
it enough to live in Saudi Arabia right
now and just be gay is it enough
let's be want to just suck dick it's not
enough it's never gonna be enough to
just suck dick it's never gonna be
enough and we can all we can all pat
ourselves on the back and feel like
heroes for sucking each other's dicks
and at some point you got to say no you
know what we actually need a political
movement we actually need some kind of
you know whether it's through lobbying
government or protest we have to get
organized right ultimately this is a
political and democratic struggle and of
course in Saudi Arabia it's also a
religious struggle even here in Canada
it was a religious struggle to some
extent it was a struggle that took place
within the Anglican Church and
Catholic Church but I mean those those
churches aren't that powerful in Canada
compared to a you know majority Muslim
countries the role of religion there but
regardless it's still a really just
struggle in Israel too by the way just
to just to give fair recognition that
it's not it's not particularly easy gay
rights in Israel um so no your own
consumption your own sex life your own
private life so it's never enough now
the only caveat I put is it not
everybody can do it
yeah I've all my life I've known
disabled people they're serving me I'm
not gonna say I have a lot of disabled
friends at the moment different times of
my life I've had friends who were
disabled to different extents there are
people who can't really do anything just
because they're physically disabled
they're people who can't really do
anything to do extreme poverty my own
economic situation is pretty dire
I'm very limited in what I can do bime
economic situation I can't just fly to
London and attend a conference in London
England or something these are every
everything I do is a big decision
financially but the question is and this
is my way of posing it if not you then
who
and it's different right
it can't be everyone I'm you know I say
this about different kinds of political
and social movements you know why you
still learn Korean a Jib way and want to
bring back those languages I used to do
humanitarian work in Cambodia not
everybody can do humanitarian work in
Cambodia
not everybody can study Korean ejoyed
notes right but somebody has to and the
question is if not you then who and it
gets pretty surreal when you're looking
at someone who's who's ostensibly
devoted their lives to the vegan
movement ostensibly like Angie and Ryan
from happy healthy vegan like a natural
vegan also known as Swasey when you look
at somebody like that and they're not
doing it well if not you then who you're
a full time vegan activist you're being
paid I don't know Mike the vegan anyone
what are you doing with this money and
leisure and you know platform and
connections and network and power you
have some degree of you know money power
and respect if not you then who
so that's when it gets really weird and
you know there are there are some people
who I think are trying to do everything
they can I I'm not you know cynical
about Earthling
I think he probably is gonna adapt and
find new ways to be a vegan activist I
think he'll get bored of having the same
conversation on the sidewalk again and
again I think people will go on to
either professionalize or specialize or
or or do something better but yeah so
the but the direct answer your question
is no it's never just enough to be vegan
it can't possibly be we all know that
too just as it's different in Saudi
Arabia and in Canada there is a cultural
and political question of context what
you can do not you as an abstract but
you if you're an architect if you're a
musician if you're unemployed they're
different if you're disabled sure there
are constraints but then finally within
the talent pool we got the limited
talent pool of people who are committed
vegans if not you then who if you can't
make this sacrifice now and I have one
vegan friend she wants to do who hill
activism and she thinks she's gonna
start when she's 55 because she says
look I have so many decades raising my
kids and then I have to do this then
after that but she predicts you'll have
enough money and leisure free time and
free money to really do activism when
she's in her 50s in the world and see
how we can work and you know I admire
that it's just like me I'm trying to
make the earth like you know don't go
off on me but I'm trying to make the
effort to do vegan activism more often
than not right I'm just trying to do my
part by spreading the word at my school
and my university all that stuff and I
know it's not enough like not nearly
enough as what I could normally do but
again things come into play like
supporting my family transportation
these sorts of things right like I'm not
going out and trying to buy the fanciest
piece of our article of clothing right
like I take my money and I'm gonna spend
it accordingly it goes down to a point
where I deny I deny buying my family
animal products when they want to eat it
you know it's their money I'm gonna be
like no if if you want me to go buy it
you go drive to the store I know it's
five minutes away I can easily do it
you're still gonna get it but I want
them to go through that struggle no yo
spine I just got you ever there I'm six
foot three when I go grocery shopping
people sometimes asked me to take things
down off the
she'll for them it's cute I'm
self-effacing you butter so I say oh no
I couldn't possibly and they say what do
you what do you mean you're tall you can
reach it I you know it's on the top
shelf no no no no it's not that I'm
short I'm vegan so I gotta make a joke
of it but I joke is real I don't do it I
don't just you know it doesn't bring up
positive connotations there's some
negative things and emotions and whatnot
but I have a friend of mine who
subscribe to my youtube channel after I
had a discussion with vegan games and oh
my god this girl if if there was a day
if there was a word passionate you
looked up the definition it's her
so I follow her on Instagram her name is
Maria by the way so she'll probably
watch this discussion if she's watching
this she'll know I'm talking about her
she's from Sweden and in Sweden they
fight for a lot of different social
causes so apparently there's like a huge
presence of Nazis I was not aware of
that until she brought it to my
attention
so she fights against Nazism she fights
against a you know animal products
industry all that all that fun stuff and
one thing I noticed every single day I
kid you not
she's out and about on the streets at an
animal farm at at the at the factory
farms she's out there and she's
spreading the message and she's showing
me video she's shown pictures where the
police have gotten involved and had to
be escorted she tells me how they tipped
down deer hunting stands where they hunt
deer she hates hunters and it's crazy
like the one thing that she's super
adamant about
these stickers that she makes so the way
she travels is sure you should use
public transportation she'll take these
stickers everywhere she goes like a
stack a good stack of like 100-200
stickers start pasting them everywhere
go vegan go vegan go vegan she's
basically like leaving good print dude
it's not just her like it's obviously
it's a group and whatnot so I admire
that activism because when I see your
videos in these people taking vacations
this car was not taking a vacation well
she is literally spending every minute
of her life fighting for the animals and
fighting for the cause environmentally I
don't think she really cares about
health even though she does yoga
I also done the same I don't really care
about health we're going yeah yeah yeah
yes like she's fighting in every way
shape and form for veganism and some
might say like wow this is all this
person has in their life but the way
that my friends aren't seeing cuz I have
a lot of friends that eat meat and no
matter what I say to them it's not gonna
make them change but with her it's like
yes this is her life because it's
something bigger than her that's the way
she sees it she doesn't care if you run
her over on the streets you didn't care
if you know you shoot her I think she
even got branded I don't know if you fir
know yeah hell l214 L 269 for the number
they go to yep it's on the unusual side
of abnormal it's somewhere on the
spectrum right yeah yeah sure yeah yeah
there are different ways of doing it but
hers are completely suitable especially
if she's trying to spread the word right
although although I have to give it the
back side some people might see a
different light to that and say to
themselves you know what this is just
crazy I don't think if all vegans are
like that I don't think I'd want to go
vegan right and that's where that's
where we get that double-edged sword
like do you have to go crazy do you have
to do these crazy things like yeah I
know if you want to see crazy results
you have to do crazy things but right
that's not necessarily true because
tomorrow will pass and people will still
continue eating
this is a long marathon this is an
Ironman right this is not something that
you're gonna win overnight and I feel
like most of the vegans in the YouTube
community specifically needed to
understand that it's okay I mean I know
you're against reduce that arianism but
for me it's like it's okay if somebody
falls off on their vegan diet I mean
we'll segue into the vegetable at least
but I'm just okay so I know you don't
ask me a question I'm gonna I'm gonna
respond as if it's question um what
ended the Vietnam War so this may seem
like it's totally unrelated but it's not
for me this really is the answer now
there were a lot of specific incidents
during the Vietnam War that excited
similar passions and it's understandable
to my knowledge only one man was ever
actually fully prosecuted in a military
court for misconduct in Vietnam one
excuse or another was always found to
derail delay or cancel basically trials
for war crimes crimes against humanity
miss misconduct by US soldiers in
Vietnam but that case was of a soldier
having improper conduct with an underage
girl in an interrogation room he was
raping a female child and I think
everybody who knew anything about that
case knew this was not the only incident
with this guy there was a lot of rape in
in Vietnam US soldiers did rape a lot of
women there was torture and some of the
guys who committed the torture showed up
at the house of Congress what are called
the winter soldier hearings and
complained so the guy is tearing up it's
not even like speculative they
themselves had done this torture and
they wanted to give depositions to
Congress and say hey this is kind of
over the line what we're doing so that
stuff you know makes people passionate
you know to some extent you wonder why
why are people why are people so
resigned to crimes against humanity
being committed by US soldiers however
would would it solve the problem so what
what is the problem okay first of all
the problem here we're addressing is
specifically accountability and
discipline in the US Armed Forces that
is the problem we're not talking about
the
a question of whether or not you should
invade Vietnam in the first place the
point is given that you have an army in
Vietnam that you're raping and torturing
people
okay so standards of Human Rights
decency and then accountability when
those standards are violated
disappointed said that's remote nobody
could possibly believe nobody's even
gonna debate with me is the way to
improve those standards in the US
military by doing what your friend Maria
is doing it can't it can't possibly eat
now what is the way to do it okay then
we can make a flowchart say okay how are
we gonna actually address the question
of raising standards of conduct and
accountability for US Armed Forces
abroad I think that's a debate worth
having and that would be a political
movement worth leading and devoting
years of your life to and people
donating millions of dollars to
ultimately all these things have a price
tag but I sympathize with someone who
just wants to frankly go crazy and there
were there were people in the 1960s and
I think probably still say no just put
up stickers saying the US Army raped
this person the US Army tortured this
person this is unacceptable these are
across these crimes against humanity but
as soon as we take a step beyond that we
ask you Sturgess start thinking about
outcomes and impacts and we start think
about how many hours and years of life
were putting into it we have to come to
a to a better methodology so that that
is my answer to the question and there's
a there's a kind of necessary irony here
because again direct action everywhere
they were founded on the promise that
they were learning the lessons of
history and already with this one
example you see that it's impossible to
just point to the lessons of history
that's one lesson I take from the
history of the Vietnam War you know and
you know that's been a part of my life
in various ways other people can read
the same history and not take that
lesson at all and so on and so forth
but yeah that's you know that that's
that's my answer some people they do
they do so much but they don't realize
that the magnitude that they're doing it
at is very small if not minimal okay so
sir I have one more okay great that's a
really one but look okay so my
comparison there was two ultimately
question of discipline you're asking the
army to be disciplined or to have self
discipline and and and in some ways I
think that is like the culture of
meat-eating where you're looking for
most of us you're looking at your own
mother or your own father and saying why
can't you have some accountability why
can't you have some self discipline so I
mean I don't think it's totally
irrelevant to speak in those kinds of
loaded ethical terms of personal
responsibility and accountability and
then there's a larger cultural skill to
it also
there's the culture of the military sure
um look I I am an atheist I see a lot
wrong with Islam how really are you
gonna change a muslim-majority country
culturally how are we gonna change Saudi
Arabia or Indonesia or Malaysia it's not
it's not gonna be through Maria's
tactics again I'm not picking on Maria
but if you asked her what if you were
living in a country where 99% of the
population is Muslim like Indonesia is
this what you do would you go around
putting up stickers saying circumcision
destroys 50% of the nerve endings and
your penis circumcision is child abuse
there's a good example sticker that says
circumcision is child abuse of course on
a scientific factual level I agree with
this statement circumcision is terrible
however on a political level and even on
an artistic level artistically this is
an artistic and creative challenge how
are we gonna change the culture and this
is why I'm using this is much different
from the military question I don't think
there's so much of an artistic question
a creative challenge you know that
that's more of a purely political
question it's not going to be through
these tactics and on the contrary you
know you may get killed I'm using her
tactics in Saudi Arabia or or Indonesia
I'm not even necessarily by the
government just local you know sincerely
religious people may take the svenska
and again to be fair Orthodox Jews in
Israel may kill you if you you know piss
off you know Orthodox and Hasidic Jews
so me know there are ever so often
religious conflicts of that even within
Judaism so that is the magnitude of the
of the challenge we're up against so
again I sympathize with people who are
perhaps overcome with passion and want
to do these things but I do think we can
say it's strategically tactically
and even artistically or aesthetically
kind of kind of wrong yeah from a I
don't know just arrogant standpoint but
like I I studied criminal justice oh
yeah and I I received a master's degree
in criminal justice and one thing we
noticed right like it's one thing to sit
there and fight the courts or it's one
thing to sit there and fight people
being put in office as judge or or what
have you
and then it's another thing to lobby and
it's another thing to write to lawyers
it's another thing to actually become a
lawyer it's another thing to join
Congress like it's one thing to sit
there and complain about the atrocities
and the in justices that are going on in
the United States this is clear and
evident we know that the the prison
rates are disproportionate among blacks
than they are with whites something's
going on something's out of whack not
some one right but if we expect anything
to change we can't just sit there and
point fingers and say this guy's racist
that guy's racist like okay yeah we we
have evidence to show that there
allegedly racist
we can't prove it a hundred percent we
can't prove it beyond a reasonable doubt
but your question that you you know
rhetorically asked many of your viewers
what are you going to choose what are
you gonna do to change it like sitting
there pointing the fingers not gonna do
a damn thing so it's important for us to
actually take charge and realize that if
you want to fight for veganism it's not
a two-day thing it's not a 90-day thing
challenged 22 is great to get somebody
started but I think it's a I think it's
a 300 year thing I do I miss Bianca I
think veganism is a 300 year struggle
and if you look at I mean I think it is
fair to say what is the future of Saudi
Arabia over 300 years I think that is I
think that is yeah sure I think that is
the time to timeline um you know which
for me is not an excuse for for
indifference but you know cultural and
human rights progress mmm even China
it's incredibly depressing what's really
possible in the next 50 years in
communist China you know you you you
worry so yeah I mean I do I do I do see
these things as very deep very long-term
struggles now okay quick devil's
advocate what's the best thing about
Maria's approach to
one she she's gonna meet other people
who also care about it want to make a
difference that is very positive said
all the time one of the main reasons I
came in the internet was to make friends
meet colleagues get organized save the
world you can't do it alone
so she's probably gonna be less isolated
because she's doing this form of
activism than she otherwise would be um
and point two there is an educational
and learning process involved now okay
if some people are so stupid they're not
going to learn from anything I remember
I got a story you know I used to
humanitarian work and I got a story from
someone else doing humanitarian work we
were in Southeast Asia but this woman
that previous had been in in Africa in
there in Africa where there was a civil
war going on and she met a white tourist
who signed up to fight in a with the
communist rebels in this war in Africa
as tourists you know and I asked her I
said so at what point did he stop and
reconsider the ethics of the morality of
what she was doing so you know what it
was one day the guy standing right next
to him got shot in the head that's in
his case that's what it took was
standing next to someone you get shot
sorry to laugh dies but I mean it's Q
she didn t assume he would have you know
cradled this guy as he was dying and
stuff I see me worry I don't think he
just ran away I assume he you know tried
to help this guy or something - I don't
know but and then he started to ask
himself the tough questions so even if
it is shall we say negative learning
learning from seeing things go wrong
it's probably true that she's gonna look
around again even someone most people
have spoken to who were involved with
direct action everywhere they got
involved they saw what the organization
was doing wrong and then they said ooh
this is really messed up you know
financially organizationally ethically
and running onto a baseball field for 30
seconds and then go spend a week in
prison yeah because it's not that
serious a charge I'm getting wrong but
still you know the the legal stuff is a
big deal it's is not effective this is
not worth it so Pete there is a learning
process that goes on also so that I
would say those are the two two most
positive things about about Maria's
approach yeah
okay good stuff I think I think I want
to conclude on that topic good I think
we got some some good things out there
the next thing I want to bring up is
carnivore dieters Pacific vegetable
police kasumi Chris and underneath this
category I have written down three sub
points no evidence for the carnivore
dire social pressures of veganism and
then the third one being in
us-versus-them mentality so why don't we
go ahead and start off by asking each
other or talking to each other about how
we feel of these two youtubers in
particular okay make them slaves but
look I think point zero on the list here
is human being seeking attention and I
mean okay right attention seeking
behavior now look I've known a couple
families where somebody in the family
attempted suicide you know younger
person in the family not a cert teenager
or someone in their 20s and a lot of the
time the parents the older generation
would have this dismissive attitude of
oh they were just doing that for
attention and I tried to put forward the
argument as sensitively as possible if
your son wants attention or if your
nephew wants attention to earth person
was OSI do maybe you should give it to
them like why are you presuming like you
know I understand the sense in which
you're dismissing their suicide attempt
as just wanting attention no on the
other hand that does not mean the
morally correct thing for you to do now
is to refuse to give them attention
maybe they are craving attention and
maybe this problem Y should be improved
if you start paying attention on this
person um I have a I have a distant
cousin who ended up in a wheelchair for
life because of a failed suicide attempt
through himself off a roof and he
survived but was you know very it had a
spine injury in someone's life sorry to
say these things get these things yes
discuss I think everyone every family
these things come up soon within your
within your circle of acquaintances
you'll probably know this kind of thing
so I do not think attention seeking
behavior is evil I think a lot of people
perceive what I do in my channel is
attention seeking behavior I think a
very small percentage of what I do in my
channel is attention scene paper but
that's that's fine if I mean I
understand people you're sure
so you put a lot of effort in your
videos someone can easily say this guy
just wants attention some percentage of
what you're doing here and exhibiting
yourself on the Internet is what so I
just start with that concession now with
that having been said I noticed when
Kasumi crests showed up at the anti
vegan protest her first auntie vegan
protest with spheric was also known as
Gatos approaching his name wrong there
but they were eating raw meat in front
of vegans at a vegan event like a vegan
festival kind of kind of day as their
public protest their Pro meat protest
against vegan one of the things she said
she stood there and said in English Wow
isn't it amazing it's getting so much
attention and everything about that that
moment and her being there and her tone
of voice and saying that I thought
that's what this is all about for you
and you know I mean I utterly despise
vegetable police when we were both in
Chiang Mai I offered to meet up with
them I offered to have a boxing match
with him you know I could share a boxing
match I don't mean I don't nobody would
have gotten hurt would have done in a
gym and I said look when we have a
boxing match and whoever wins gets to
pick one book that the loser has to read
and do a book review video of that was
Mike Chang is a cool Bachmann boxing
match yeah and you know he made pro-nazi
holocaust denying videos in the past
which I criticized him for I thought my
criticism was quite mild but I know my
criticism really impacted him he really
felt hurt that I had criticized him for
that you know are you are you surprised
you know but I mean that all of that
behavior it's attention-getting behavior
that guy he had no sincere interest in
the history of World War two he had no
sincere interest in the history of
fascism or the Holocaust or anything
else his interest was in wasn't getting
attention which is what I said in my
criticism of him you know what motivates
kasumi Kris she is lying to herself much
more than she's lying to her audience
she claims veganism made her weak I had
the screenshots of her bench pressing
and deadlifting you know doing these
things yeah she was bragging oh I did my
personal squatting record
deadlifting wagons she had she had
wailing as a vegan doing this stuff you
know so and now she says when she began
vegan she lost all her muscle tone and
you know couldn't lift any weight well
you yourself produce video evidence
country but what motivates that
fundamentally it is attention-seeking
behavior so whether you regard that as
good or evil is probably irrelevant I
think it's kind of I I think it's part
of the human condition my subscribers
right I hang out with them and discord
all the time and they would tell me how
they used to love vegetable police's
videos way back when they were original
they were different and something to
watch
but recently well not recently he's
probably been doing this the entire time
where he would switch up on his diet and
he would say that he's got a problem
here he's got a problem there and at the
end of it all he would say oh this works
amazing this doesn't this works great oh
the other one was wrong this is until
next week's episode this is the solution
for everything until nice things that
was actually quite controversial I
didn't know it was gonna receive this
amount of backlash because of you know
because of his nature in the way he was
right but I told my audience that just
leave him alone because I honestly
believe the carnivore diet will take a
toll on his diet to the point where he
will come back to veganism and then
we're just wasting our breath by telling
him hey you're eating me because he's
not gonna listen to us he's not gonna
listen to anybody he's already made up
his mind he's been in the carnival or
die at this long like you mentioned he's
been getting the attention that he's
been seeking he's snagged what 60 70
thousand subscribers off YouTube from
the veganism a few of them left but now
he's got this entire new audience that
he's shifting to and they're giving him
the care and attention that he was
seeking like like you were mentioning
earlier yes for kasumi Chris I honestly
I think you were spot-on when you said
she's looking for attention because she
joined the vegan she drank veganism in
the hopes that she's gonna be looking
better which she did I like a lot of
things cleared up for her she got
stronger she made more friend I don't
know about more friends but she made a
different group
friends yeah right
but then she sees that this other side
veganism where you have people that are
angry and bitter and somewhat depressed
she's gonna take things at face value
and say to herself I haven't been
feeling that good yeah it's definitely
veganism let me do a complete 180
let me not just introduce a little bit
of meat and see if that made the
difference let me just completely throw
vegetables and fruit out the window let
me eat strictly beef the same with
Michaela Peterson same with Jordan
Peterson the same with all these other
people that are just ditching it
completely it's one thing to feel good
right and it's another thing to be
healthy right because people could
probably eat I mean you probably
disagree with this right but people
could probably eat 98 percent of their
diet plant-based and then have meat once
a year really that one pure beef
probably won't make the biggest
difference no wait epically it matters
ethically it matters ecologically but it
doesn't matter no in terms your health
you know you can you can also whiskey is
toxic you can drink whiskey once a year
and turn it around and say well
ethically you know people are mean and
then they turn on you and this and that
the only thing that I have to ask people
like vegetable police and kasumi Chris
is ionized like commented on it's three
ridges videos and all the other
carnivore dieters I always comment their
videos because it's just so much fun
it's a mess with them that Frank to
think they're Frank to fajn oh sorry we
call him Frank two-finger yeah he sits
there and he tells you about these anti
nutrients and whatnot so one thing I
always ask them is why aren't the
longest-living populations on this
planet not the vegan thing is out the
picture if you're advocating for a
strictly meat and an animal-based diet
why aren't the living longest
populations on these diets right where's
the evidence no and historically you
know everyone knows it with the example
the Inuit but you know the other big
example really is Mongolia and I had
done some research on the history of
Mongolia
did not have a 100% meat diet but it was
a predominantly meat diet with very
little green vegetables or fruit net
meat and porridge meat and porridge diet
and you know was nearly 100 percent
obesity rate and you know people could
live a pretty robust life on that diet
till about age 30
your health is falling apart yeah yeah
yeah and I mean oh it is what it is I
was just talking to someone yesterday
but who had cholesterol problems already
at age 12 and she's now on a she's now
on a vegan diet but she was being
diagnosed with cholesterol cause health
problems it I think at 12 and 14 and
stuff with them so yeah yeah yeah yeah I
mean the you know the games you play
with your health are real but I mean you
know again you know I mean it's funny
because sometimes these things are
phrased in terms of optimal health like
how can you win at the Olympics that's a
question the vast majority of humanity
doesn't need to answer like I really
don't care if the 0.00 because they're
using steroids I mean they're using all
kinds of things that I don't the most
people shouldn't use you know the one
question is optimal health that skews
the conversation one way and then the
other question is what can you get away
with what can you scrape by on and sure
I mean most of us our own grandparents
most of our own grandparents scraped by
on meat and potatoes and whiskey and
cigarettes and we saw how they lived I
mean you know maybe you're the exception
watching this video and your
grandparents were vegan yoga instructors
let me tell you most of us we have
relatives from the older generation or a
family who showed you what that kind of
you know one healthy diet is like but
they didn't drop dead at 35 from you
know they dropped out whenever they drop
dead you know sorry I mean you know but
you know they lived reasonable lives and
you had those expectations admission is
for my channel I didn't I said before I
didn't expect to look like this a 40
what a 40 year old male and my family
looked like you know and their ability
to walk up a staircase was much much
lower I mean they were you know what
they were pretty disabled people but 40
that was what was normal in my well I
was was normal in my family and people
were just basically kind of fat and
unethical you know whether they were
smokers or ex-smokers or whatever I mean
it was
the meat you know it sir I've mentioned
for else in the South of France
people always grossly under
underestimate my age they think I'm way
younger than I am and that's because
they yeah which I don't I don't think I
look useful but I don't look like I'm
dying right that's right that's what
what they think so when I had my
daughter I mean you know people thought
I was like a teen dad and when I
challenged them because I speak some
French and said I'm sorry how old do you
think I am and they'd stop and think
about it they'd be like what are you
like twenty-two like they'd realize I
was a they realize I was offended that I
thought that you know I thought I was a
teenager and then okay so you're in your
early 20s no I'm in my late 30s you know
I'm now 40 you know so you know it is
what it is but I mean ultimately all of
this you know we've already said it in
this conversation earlier ultimately
this is about taking responsibility for
the consequences of your actions so you
know I don't care if you can either be
an Olympic athlete who eats meat or if
you can just scrape by as my own
grandparents did and eat meat of course
that's true I'm asking you to do the
right thing because the right thing to
do I'm asking to take responsibility for
your actions ecologically and yeah in
terms of the fact that right now there
were literally billions of animals in a
steel shed on a concrete floor in a cage
never seeing the sunlight and waiting to
die I mean it's this is just you know
it's inexcusable so let's all stop
making excuses for do you think the
social pressures that these do you think
they're first of all do you think that
there are social pressures that people
like vegetable police and consuming
crisps are going through and if so is
that enough for them to stop being vegan
okay I know it's a stupid question look
okay I have met women who felt they were
ugly because their sister was
better-looking than them as life goes on
you watching this video may not have
been in the situation it will probably
have you at some point your life you
meet a woman who's really insecure about
her looks and is really hung up in hooks
and you just kind of don't get any
wonder why and then you meet her sister
or you see a family photo of her and her
family all together and then all of a
sudden ah
you get it the point is she never feels
that she can be good-looking enough
because she's comparing herself to her
own sister
you know and I've known families like
that intellectually also where you know
the parents of the family are surgeons
and the kid feels always feel stupid and
like they haven't accomplished enough
compared to their own parents or
compared to the older brother so there
is a question for most human beings of
what standards they may be maybe
consciously or unconsciously setting for
their own accomplishments vegetable
police is very stupid and he's very ugly
and he lives in a world where tragically
I don't say this without sympathy it's
easy for me to sympathize them he
compares himself to the Brotherhood of
people on YouTube the Brotherhood of
people on Instagram and especially his
little demi-monde
the Brotherhood of people in Chiang Mai
Thailand making money out of YouTube and
Instagram who were vegan right that was
the category he put himself into and
he's the ugliest and he's the stupidest
of them all and he doesn't speak Thai
and he can't learn how to speak Thai you
can't really do much of anything with
his brain he doesn't really have
anything to say this is a medium that's
very much based on being a good talker
he's not really that eloquent or smart
or charming or sharp or witty and he's
ugly all right and he wants to I mean
we've seen this for years he wants to
develop big muscles to compensate he
wants to be he can't do it I mean he's
tried his hardest with you know my
exercising calisthenics and so that's
really a tragedy that he's trying to act
out as a comedy and it is in this in the
strictest sense it's it's pathetic
now Kasumi crests I wouldn't call her
ugly but she does she does have a really
terrible problem with acne and you know
she's finally been putting up pictures
of what she looks like when she was guys
so I'm sure she feels especially ashamed
of her looks it's really really serious
extreme acne guys I sympathize but you
know so she struggles with acne she
struggles with feeling ugly and
again she looks at her competition she
looks at her brothers and sisters on
YouTube and Instagram and she feels a
lot of inferiority so that's the
struggle I mean that's the struggle
psychologically and for those people
these two you mentioned I think for
thousands of others of the most visible
people in the vegan movement and most
visible people on Instagram and YouTube
generally that's the kind of psychology
that bring to it that's the kind of
competition er struggle Duran and not
the struggle is not to save the planet
the struggle is not to lobby government
for social change I mean it's not that's
not what they see themselves right and
you know one of the one of the one to
mention let's let's just you a little
bit more of a sympathetic example so
hennya of Hannya mania she started out
being someone like your friend Maria
hennya started out being a really
firebrand street protest street theater
activist kind of person and you know she
obviously struggles with her weight
charles with her looks she was born with
a condition where she has really
terrible teeth she's talked about that
she's born with some kind of digestive
disorder she's a long history of
psychiatric problems and getting on
various antidepressants she's all these
problems and she comes on YouTube and
she feels like she's suddenly in a
competition for who's the prettiest and
who's the smartest and she seemed to
completely lose her moral compass and
sense of purpose in terms of vegan
activism which in her case she did have
at the beginning she was a legitimate
activist at the start and by the end of
it she's just another vape 'add you know
two dimensional plastic you know kind of
aspiring beauty icon permanent vacation
Instagram model figure so there's a
range of these things but yeah that's
that's my um that's my psychological
rather than putting a political analysis
of what's what's going on there it's
hard it's hard to get attention and
vegetable police is a guy who will even
temporarily become a neo-nazi to get
attention that's that's who
I can understand the motives but I don't
it's despicable it's this big away yeah
that that is hello I don't know why he
didn't do the boxing match with me I
don't think that's nearly as low what
the hell cares
[Music]
somebody banana something banana guy
banana Ram I don't know the guys name
but yeah and and true vegetable police
fashion he you know he denied or he said
that he wasn't doing as much yeah of
course bring up with the carnivore
dieters I'm getting this sense now I am
NOT negative in any way when it comes to
people that eat me I understand where
they're coming from I disagree
completely but I have to sympathize in
the sense that I used to be in that same
position not too long ago and even 10
years from now I'm still gonna look at
them and be like you know what you're
not educated that's fine take your time
if you if I've presented all the facts
if I've shown you all the evidence if
I've convinced you epically and yet you
still continue to do it then we might
have a problem but if you're like my
siblings or you know like my family and
they sit there and they tell me I don't
care I just love the taste I'm not even
gonna bother arguing I'm not dead like
you cannot change a stubborn person's
mind so I'm not even gonna bother I've
presented them with everything and at
the end of the day they're gonna eat you
with I don't care that's fine I'm not
gonna argue with you I'm gonna go move
on to somebody else that's reasonable
that's open to discussion and that wants
to make a difference now with the
carnivore dieters the issue that I have
is that vegans are painting this brush
with the us-versus-them mentality or so
that's what it seems like and I don't
like that at all because at the end of
the day they're still human beings yes
they're committing terrible atrocities
yes they're doing these horrible things
but people can change right and they
just need to be they just need to be
shown hey look what you're doing is not
only unhealthy what you're doing is not
only damaging the environment in ecology
as you mentioned in many of your videos
but ethically how can you go to sleep at
night
that you have a pet dog but you're
eating the cow
I'd be like when is it gonna click in
your mind that this thing is not only
wrong ethically but just hypocritical in
nature well I already gave you my
example from the tourist in Africa I
don't know I mean you know it is what it
is but look um you know why do we object
to someone wearing a t-shirt that
approves of the Nazi Party a t-shirt
that promotes you know Adolf Hitler the
t-shirt itself does not directly harm or
kill anyone however you know we do
really have a problem where Dangerous
Ideas influence people especially weak
people you know obviously you know the
way religious groups and cults prey on
the weak the way extreme political
groups including neo-nazis you know prey
on and recruit the weak and so on you
know there's a reason why we stand up
and say no this is despicable and you
can't you can't wear this t-shirt the
t-shirt isn't intrinsically evil but
there is a lot of extrinsic danger built
into the situation I do think that it's
fair to say the misinformation being
spread by the carnivore people the
program people like mckaela mckaela
Peterson it is dangerous
it is a negative influence it harms
people now to give comparison what if I
you know was promoting a diet that
involved people drinking small
quantities of really harmful metals like
lead and Mercury right I wish this were
a hypothetical example it's not that's
done in in Indian yoga groups where they
believe you should drink all these
various magical metals including gold
and what have you also then go through
your system it's a gold medal
superstition so there is some stuff out
there like that what if you know we have
a form of Christianity where people
believe in being bitten by poisonous
snakes you know those ideas are out
there and you know I I'm not directly
disagreeing with with what you you say
but I have I am delimiting it which is
no it's it's really
harmful and if people were spreading the
message that it was okay to Huff glue
that smelling Glue fumes did no brain
damage
we'd be out there saying no no no we
have to you know partly for ethical
reasons we can't have people spreading
this kind of misinformation we have to
draw a line and you you know so I mean I
think that in in that sense I mean the
stakes are low I don't think anyone
really feels a sense of urgency about
refuting McKay leo Peterson but but I
think it does fall into that category
whether there is a there is a real
conflict with real consequences so how
do you feel about the separation between
these two groups then I know that we
have things like in politics where you
have the Republicans versus Democrats
you have neo-nazis versus basically
every human being on planet Earth
you have a lot of separation here and
the one thing that I'm trying to get at
is why is there so much hate on both
sides now we keep saying that we're
right and they keep saying that they're
right now of course I'm going to side
with us because I've looked at the
research I've seen the damage I don't
feel particularly comfortable with
eating that stuff anymore but how do I
know that they're not right okay so you
have two different questions one was
within each of the conflict but look I
think the the conflicts are the first to
have your question I think it's just
creative for entertainment value I think
that's all that's happening there and a
lot of things the Internet are like that
veganism is a sincere movement it may be
a failure as a movement it may be a very
small boom but it's a sincere movement
and the carnism thing the pro meat
eating thing in McCovey it is not a
sincere movement on the one hand you're
talking about some severely mentally
broken people Micheli Epirus enlists off
these mental problems that are pretty
serious and then her conclusion was to
put herself on an all meat diet okay so
I mean this is someone who's basically
testifying to how insane she is now you
know let's be honest durianrider did the
same durianrider listed off he that he
had been diagnosed with schizophrenia
and other serious meant
bonuses he also claimed that he had
miraculously cured these conditions by
eating bananas just recently during
writers said in court under oath that he
has brain damage we don't know how
serious the brain damage is it's
presumably from the same car accident
all right but we don't we don't know
that he didn't stayed but you know okay
so this is someone so when indeed
durianrider was not a suitable eager
leader for the big movement so you got
you got a lot of you know mentally
broken people
but you know um you know the the
sincerity of veganism is a movement
gives it depth and longevity and you
know no I don't think McKay Leo Peterson
really represents a counter movement nor
distorted spirit or what-have-you
well sure but just one more thing the
only thing I was gonna say is what we
are looking for at this stage in 2018 is
talent
vegans are trying to recruit talented
people now it's true to some extent
there's also a financial challenge like
yeah it would also be great if we could
have more donors or more money
supporting the talent that's there but
it's really talent that's scarce not
money in 2018 so I don't really think
there is a conflict inevitable just in
the sense that I don't look at Micheli a
Peterson as Talent I'm not trying to
recruit her to our side you know even if
something as simple as making a making
documentary films to support veganism or
something you start looking around say
okay I'm looking for talent to
accomplish this I'm looking to lobby
city hall or state Congress or
Parliament the kind of talent you're
hoping for I just don't think we're
looking at the same talent pools and on
the other side you have people you know
like guys who are just kind of fad diet
bodybuilders on the meat eating side I
there's an asymmetry here and then the
nature of what's going on in terms of
motivations methods means and outcomes
you more than does anyone donate money
does anyone donate money to me Kyoya
Peterson you see that's another
important difference I don't think she's
running a foundation like pet or
something
I don't think you see what I mean so
that's also different now anything I do
for veganism ultimately I gotta worry
about donations and and support what
have you and those guys don't that's not
what that's nothing any place so that's
another little hint as to how
asymmetrical they are yeah but again I
don't like to use this word but it
almost seems like there's this cult-like
mentality with the carnivore dieters and
it's live I don't know I don't even like
to use the r-word you know or I just say
mentally ill mentally challenged I was
thinking rape but okay go on
[Music]
entertainment because it's just like so
much fun to listen to somebody go super
crazy about these ideas and they sit
there and think like dude you're
actually it's not harmful what you're
saying to me because I know you're a
crazy guy and what's harmful is the
people listening to you and joining your
cause right that's the harm that I'm
seeing like how are these people
seriously gonna sit there and believe
what this guy's saying you know and the
the one video that I admired a lot from
you oh my goodness thank you for posting
it was the hypocrite versus Hippocratic
oath oh right yeah yeah right okay yeah
sure and we've seen this countless times
he also ran out of funds from YouTube
Marin started asking his patreon
supporters his YouTube subscribers to
give him money to sustain the diet well
maybe that diet isn't sustainable so
again the thing that's scary about him
isn't the fact that he's promoting this
but the fact that people are following
him he's really scares me so it's it's
turning into somewhat of a cult and I
again I don't like to use that word
because people in cults
follow their leaders blindly yeah and
with with all some with all conviction
that they have and in a sense you see
that from people in the vegan movement
like brought so four or the breatharians
and whatnot and I think Tim Timothy
sheep was like that for a little bit so
I assume I assume you don't have any
kids do have kids no okay
well so hypothetically in the future
let's say you have an 18 year old son
and you'll see this this applies pretty
easily to 28 and 38 without much
difference see you have an 18 year old
son and he starts a YouTube channel or
website and the in the future and all of
a sudden he's got just $500 a month
coming in and let's say just five women
a month write to him interested in
having sex with him like not flat out
off offers but women ring and say hey
you know are you ever coming to Chicago
I'd really like to meet up with you and
here's a picture of me okay right the
vast majority of 18-year old males will
go in blunt language ape [ __ ] they will
not have the fortitude self-discipline
and attachment to deal with that very
well and it doesn't have to be a lot of
Fame or a lot of success if just five
women are trying to sleep with you
you know that's infinitely more than
zero and you got options and you all of
a sudden there's the possibility of
going to Chicago
that goes to most you know I'm I'm a
really weird person it doesn't go to my
head and I have had you know I had
frankly not lately I've had periods in
my channel where you know um you know
some money was coming in and you know
significant attention of the opposite
sex and then and I mean I'm the very
cynical world-weary person who looks at
that in a certain kind of analytical way
but whether it's 18 28 38 that's gonna
have some of the features from an
outsider's perspective that a cult has
you see so that that's actually my
warning here is it's not so much that
I'm coming down strongly and saying no
no no this is not a cult I'm pointing
out that this is
similar to a cult in a way in ways that
I think are ultimately misleading that's
my suggestion and now look it doesn't
even mean it's good if that were your
son I mean actually can think about it
what is more scary if your son at 18
joins a cult group or if your son is in
that position at 18 of suddenly having
that kind of money and temptation coming
in both both are dangerous both I think
would be very concerning to apparently I
think I mean I think one of the
differences so you know I had at least
one video I think this was even in the
title I to talk about the self-directed
cult I know I have a written article
that's called the robber jay lifton and
the self-directed culprit what
self-directed cult and one of the
differences is the 18 year old with the
hit YouTube channel nobody's in charge
there's no there's nobody he answers to
above him right they I think that would
be true of most of these groups also
even though they may seem very cult-like
you know so it has this strange
decentralized self-directed quality and
I would say you know something like the
passionate following freely used to have
it was all people sitting at their own
computers convincing themselves this
stuff must be true and yeah so it'll
acted lacked the the leadership and
followership followership evidence of
most real world cults perfect perfect
transition to our next topic mental and
physical health issues among vegans it's
because this cult-like mentality doesn't
just come you know like on your on your
lap it doesn't come in front of you it's
something that's probably built up over
time brain washings you know feeling
negative from your parents the way they
treat you the way they raise you these
kind of issues arise and and they don't
just come overnight and some of that has
to do with mental and physical issues
not just among vegans but among all
people to get them to that point so
we've seen it a lot vegan gains has been
open
about it he mentioned how he used to be
an angry person he's saying how veganism
has helped but according to basically
anybody that watches his videos they
still see him as an angry person Isaac
from ask yourself he's mentioned in
himself as well not that he's a
particularly angry person but there are
things in life that get him angry and he
just really can't deal with it if I were
to give another example of vegan that
has gone through issues well I'm just
putting out the mainstream guys out
there sure sure sure you said you said
durianrider he's diagnosed with
schizophrenia
he claims he claims he us yeah I that
also could be alive but yeah right he
claims it you know this I have to say
that I don't think I don't even believe
that the vegan diet as long as its whole
food plant-based good quality sources of
vitamins and minerals I don't believe
those kinds of diets inherently cause
the mental health issues or physical
health issues but we see it a lot of
people saying that they're vegan for
ethical reasons and then developing
mental and health issues one for their
diet and two because of their contempt
for people that eat meat and we see it
all the time where that sort of rage
that sort of passion that they have goes
out of control and they start yelling
things to people like you're [ __ ] I
hate that word and they say you're
[ __ ] when they say you're a murderer
when they say like and it's all good
fight it completely makes sense they are
absolutely right but it needs to be
redirected or brought back in because
it's not healthy for them to express
themselves in this sort of way I think
it'd be fair to say it's it's pathetic I
mean the word pathetic has kind of a
double meaning there's pathos there but
it is pathetic to be screaming at
someone that they're [ __ ] and so on
yeah yeah yeah I don't like I don't like
the name-calling thing at all I don't
think this is gonna help the vegan
movement whatsoever you can say what you
want
a natural vegan and the way she looks
and the way she raises her kids but like
you mentioned in your video call her a
dumb [ __ ] isn't gonna do much for you
or for anybody that's vegan come on and
this thing sort of escalates and well
she she calls me a cult leader we're
going well things you can back it up but
ever yeah yeah well I think that's a
totally self-contained statement you
made I don't think the same response to
it I guess what I would ask you is do
you really think rage is the outstanding
problem because you mostly talked about
about rage there I don't know if rage is
the main there's really no evidence but
from what it seems do there seems like
these vegans develop depression as one
of the main sources and I want to say I
want to say it's not because of the food
right even though there are causes like
saturated fat and you know vegan pizza
is in vegan hamburgers like if you eat a
highly high amounts of processed food
it's definitely gonna lead to depression
and lower energy levels but the fact
that you're surrounding yourself with
people that talk down to meat eaters
don't you think that if you're around
that sort of environment maybe it's not
the healthiest for your mind to be in
and the fact that 98% of the world eats
meat and so you're already limiting
yourself to a group of people that
aren't gonna be next to you for one
that's why we have discord and number
two you don't even have the options to
go out and eat vegan not many options
right like unless you live in LA what
else see ya Morrigan Atlanta New York
City like unless you live in these big
cities where they offer you these
options you as an individual
you've secluded yourself from an
environment where you could have made
potentially a lot more friends simply
because of the culture that you live in
whereas now you've you're in veganism
where it's been reduced significantly
and you will find friends yeah but are
these people really going to be helping
you out with those mental issues well
look see you asked you asked first about
kind of rage and now you're talking
about friendship friendship and
isolation um I'm kind of gonna answer
with something that's related to both
but it may not be obvious to you how
which is tigh what hatred and I think a
lot of people not just in Western
culture are in denial about the extent
to which they hate and I use the word
hate quite intentionally these a lot of
people are in denial about the extent to
which they hate the culture they happen
to have been born into and you didn't
choose that culture now you know again
depending on how well traveled you are
what if I had been born in Italy what if
I had been born in Egypt what if I had
been born in South or a pardon me Saudi
Arabia but even closer to home what if I
had been born and raised in Georgia we
just got back from Detroit and I mean
there are a lot of things I would really
really hate about Detroit about spending
any length of time there and you know
some people I mean I'm I'm very cerebral
about this I'm aware of the contrast
from myself in Canadian culture I'm
aware of the few things that I
positively value about it I'm aware of
the gaps and differences and the sources
of friction and hatred or whatever and I
can try to manage that in a kind of
intellectually sophisticated way I try
to have a productive positive life
despite that people who are not aware of
it or people who are suppressing it
denying it people who are pretending
that they're happy you know driving an
hour back and forth to work in traffic
and coming home to eat meat and play
with their dog and watch football on
television and you know get deep-fried
chicken wings from KFC people who are
conforming to the culture there they're
a part of and who may even be trying to
ignore the extent to which their lives
are mediocre or bleak and awful within
that culture that creates a lot of a lot
of
a lot of resentment a lot of dysphoria
to use fashionable word now obviously if
you then regard that society as you know
deeply immoral for any of these reasons
doesn't have to be you know veganism
veganism is one reason I regard a lot of
the things people do in in the decadent
West as immoral I just can't believe
people spend their lives this way you
know I think that the whole saga of what
happened with antidepressants and the
you were asking about depression I think
the whole you know pseudo scientific
marketing hype sag of what happened with
millions of people you know badly
damaging their brain chemistry with this
with this drug I think that's a really
sad story to when you you look at your
own culture and society very different
than when you know about that look at
the medical establishment differently so
on and so forth um so that's what I
would say broadly speaking is you have I
think a lot of vegans
I mean how different would my experience
of veganism be if I really loved the
city I was born and raised in it's but
it's hard for me to even imagine that
you know so alienation from your home
culture or your host culture the culture
of raising culture living in it in
hatred for at least some elements of
that culture like you know I don't play
ice hockey
I don't watch ice hockey I don't go
skiing the things that my culture
celebrates or a joke to me and I look
around at my culture being built on
genocide and colonialism and imperialism
and you know they're all these terrible
things in my culture that really bother
me I also am really bothered by people
eating you know dismembered animal
corpses every day but it's you know it's
not the only point of milla nation so
yeah it's it's very hard for most people
to look at that in a detached way again
last you know year and a half two years
my girlfriend has become quite
cosmopolitan she now knows how different
life is in France and how different it
is in China and that again gives her a
different kind of you know insight into
the extent to which being raised in
Detroit and rebelling against elements
of the the culture she was raised in you
know call
the most people no question that that's
part of it so that's honestly that's
what I think is the underlying dynamic
there and yeah vegans are not going to
be the only aspiring social movement to
have this yeah have this kind of dynamic
discussion suicide rates and a gun
ownership right and I believe this the
statistic the most recent statistic that
we found was that 40% of people that
owned pistols use it for suicide that's
scary that is scary right so more
importantly like why why are they like
you say why are they using it for
suicide well I think the more important
question asked is why are 40% of people
killing themselves okay maybe they have
some sort of attempting suicide shoes
I'm guessing that's suicide attempt but
yeah yeah
depression is rising and it's in a place
where it shouldn't be rising because you
would think you have all these things
you have all the access to basically all
the freedoms not all right isn't that
big Loosli right you know what I'm
saying um you have cars you have jobs
you have money you have things you're
not restricted on the internet you can
see whatever you want with limited
repercussion or Consequences
so the fact that the suicide rate and
depression rates are going up higher it
pains me to know that something like
veganism might contribute to it even
more or make it worse exacerbated and
that's not only due to the fact of the
nature of the movement itself but it
could be because of the poor lifestyle
and poor habits because people are
bought by the idea Hey look the evidence
shows that veganism is the longest way
to live veganism is the most ethical
thing you're you're given all these
great things about such a great movement
and at the end of it you say to yourself
well I can still eat potato chips
oh I'm vegan oh I can still drink
alcohol I'm vegan
well I can sit on the couch all day I'm
vegan
they get like some people get the idea
that they truly are better and they get
the superiority complex that they can
literally do anything they want as long
as it doesn't infringe on the freedoms
and rights of other people animals so
look I actually disagree with you here
and you know maybe I'll convince you but
this is so this is a rare case where I
get to get to disagree with you I think
what people have a scarcity of is
meaning in life now you're right there
are a lot of things we don't have a
scarcity of there's an advertisement on
this table you can't see it it's
off-camera there's an advertisement for
the Nintendo video game series Metroid
now if you take any example of you know
Mickey Mouse or you know there's so many
things in our culture that are
ultimately really Hollow and meaningless
but I mean the Metroid video games have
been around since I was a child and it's
the same plot every time you're a person
in robot armor who shoots space aliens
there's there's no meaning there's no
storyline it's very repetitive and I
think any one of those games is at least
twenty hours to play through probably
most most people that probably each game
they play for 40 hours 60 hours you know
obviously not in one sitting you know
but it's not like a movie a movie you
maybe watch for an hour and a half so
people grow up spending all of these
hours on Metroid and they spend all
these hours on you know a lot of
meaningless pop culture stuff and you
know I do think it's fair to call those
things meaningless and I think they come
out of that with a real appetite for
something meaningful so one of the
artistic challenges I'm really
interested in is producing children's
storybooks that are more meaningful than
what's available right now so you know
what songs do we sing to our children
the farmer in the Dell the farmer in the
Dell hi-ho the derry-o the farmer you
know the actual songs we have
distinguish children the stories we tell
our children which includes you know
Metroid it includes videogames they are
so meaningless it's painful and we grow
up with those is the only meaning in our
life that we can clutch at and cling to
and again my response to this
I was aware of this I was cerebrally
aware of this and I chose to convert to
Buddhism and become a scholar of
Buddhism I was trying to do something
constructive I was trying to become a
part of a culture you know that I valued
and can do something do something
positive with and you know Buddhism is
better than communism which is basically
my parents religion that I was raised
with was communism so it was a step in
the right step in the right direction
but still you know Buddhism is far from
perfect and had its own problems you
know so that that yearning for meaning
and reaching out for meaning and not
knowing how to make it yourself you
can't just replace metroid' with
something more meaningful you probably
can't you can't just program your own
video game you could most of you
probably can't you can't again you can't
most people can't just write a new story
book for their children I'm really gonna
try I have about 30 days now and I'm
really trying to prepare a series of
stories and puppet shows and activities
for my daughter for the next time I see
her because I want them to be to be
about something long to be meaningful
more meaningful than Curious George
you know another very uneven story book
Curious George anyway you know so I
think that's the challenge and that's
the scarcity and so I don't I don't see
the same thing as we do and you were
lamenting that veganism leads to further
isolation well no because veganism can
exactly be a step from a meaningless
life to a meaningful life and moreover
veganism for many people is a step away
from meaningless forms of rebellion
rebellion against the culture you were
born into a lot of people they get their
upset with the culture they're in so
they start wearing a leather jacket they
start having a mohawk the hairstyle
Mohawk you know they start dyeing their
hair for those that there are many forms
of rebellion that are meaningless and
self-defeating and what's the point you
know I do think that veganism is an act
of rebellion it's it's a refusal to
conform and comply with cultural
expectations but I think it's a
meaningful one I think it does bring
meaning into a lot of people's lives
there is pathos in that struggle you
know and there's tragedy in it but you
know there's there's also tragedy in
people
spending 40 hours playing Metroid trying
to see the good ending that's also
feature this game beating it repeatedly
so you can see the good ending and not
the better you know and and that and
that is that is mass that is epidemic
most people have nothing but Walt Disney
Nintendo's Metroid the Friday night
sports game on TV that's all they've got
and I am completely confident in saying
veganism is better than that despite
everything that's wrong with veganism
and and it's not easy for me to say that
about Buddhism it's not because Buddhism
it's much more difficult to have
something politic opposed good meaning
definitely definitely got me thinking
for a little bit I'm like yeah you know
what I'd rather be alone and fight for
something that I can stand for then be
with a million people that stand for
nothing so in that in that context I
could see where you're coming well okay
that that's a good image but let's just
put it this way
I could buy tickets to go to an ice
hockey game or go to a football game
I'll be standing in a crowd but I will
be alone in that crowd yeah and now when
I fly to Europe we're going to both
France and Germany and I'll let people
know on social media so they can meet me
maybe I'm gonna meet with two or three
vegan activist in Europe maybe just one
there's one I know we've already lined
up but I have something meaningful in
common with them hey maybe maybe it's
gonna be 10 or 15 people but you know
I'm not gonna be alone with those people
so to speak I see so that's mean meaning
can lead to togetherness and you know it
might not you might remember you might
not that the vegan woman who tried to
kill a bunch of people at YouTube
headquarters oh yeah right yeah yeah so
she she decided to try she only I think
she only shot a couple of people but she
was trying to keep murder a large number
of people and then commit suicide that
was this kind of this kind of event you
know so she had never had a boyfriend
she was a virgin until the day she died
she felt she never fit into
American culture she's very unhappy with
it religiously her family were Baha'i as
that recalled Baha'i is amol religion
there's a lot of alienation there and
she never overcame her accent she spoke
English with a thick accent despite
living in America basically her whole
life that she could remember I think is
a very small child she was at South
America but you know you know so yeah
there's an example of someone I think
veganism was the only meaningful thing
she had in her life and it wasn't enough
it's not enough she needed the boyfriend
I mean she needed whatever she know
kinds of other things she probably
needed a career in education and stuff
to I'm sorry I'm not judging I'm just
assuming there were other other things
in her life that weren't so rewarding
you know with that letter to this point
of desperation and misery but I don't
look at that and see say okay veganism
was the problem here I think probably
veganism was the only thing that that
was any good and what was really a very
bleak miserable depressing you know life
for her probably they haven't been
exposed to a vegan lifestyle they don't
know that it is a different world in
some sense where when you walk into a
grocery store you're always passing the
meat aisle and you know you don't think
about food anymore you think like wow I
can't believe this goes on for another
thirty feet but you have this is just
one sort of hundreds of thousands of
stores in one state of 50 states of 200
countries like you start thinking in
those terms and you say to yourself wow
I can't believe this is still going on
and that nobody is realizing it so for
them to have that thing to not
contribute to and to say to themselves
know I have more discipline I have more
willpower than to eat something that
tastes good it speaks a lot to them and
again like you said it gives them
meaning for life it says hey you're not
doing this for you it's for the animals
it's for the ecology you it's for
basically those that have
yep and and and some people experience
that as tragedy I mean for some people
it's tragic I've broken down weeping on
this YouTube channel at least four times
I don't have a count you know there are
tragic elements to my involvement with
veganism my girlfriend here is it more
than anyone but you know there are
things I really regret there are really
sources of sadness and sorrow and
setbacks in my life that have come out
of my involvement veganism and and for
some people there's gonna be a lot more
tragedy than than comedy but it's also
true I mean who even talks to me today
you know the friends I have the
meaningful relations that have have
mostly been brought into my life through
through veganism and look I mean so I
don't even know how old you are and
sorry you can't you know Oh yotz with
fuzzyness say you know it's possible you
and I will still know each other 10
years from now you know I remember I
mean yo again like you know in terms of
being alone in the crowd or whatever I
mean home but you know I'm busy the next
couple of months but whatever you cook
is sitting this also can be the start of
a friendship or a colleague ship or what
have you and you know if I had done a
video game YouTube channel I'm certain I
have more viewers if I'd done a game of
Thrones YouTube channel I'd have more
viewers but I don't know if I'd have
more meaningful friendships it's an open
question so yeah there are ways in which
I still kind of have to insist that
veganism is objectively a good thing
even though subjectively you you may
experience more tragedy than then comedy
from it I experienced more tragedy
simply because I'm presented with the
reality of the situation and I honestly
if it wasn't for veganism I don't think
I would have finally made that leap of
maturity that I have now now if my
friends are watching these videos right
they would say oh you know Willy you're
a crazy guy I listen that but honestly
if it wasn't for veganism I don't think
that I would have stopped watching
professional football oh really yeah no
I think that's a really interesting
sample going ya know like things began
to change and you could call it maturity
you could call it veganism you can point
it at anything but at a certain point in
time
I look at my brothers I look at my
friends and I'm like what are you guys
doing they make fun of me here's here's
a funny example they make fun of me
because we go to an annual vacation
everybody works but at least one week of
the year we all meet up together seven
eight or nine of us and we go to the
beach you know and have fun together and
they were making fun of me but in a good
way because because they saw me doing
yoga the other thing in the morning and
I think we were in Miami and I had my
phone on and as I was doing yoga I was
listening to a debate between I
hypocrite and I ask yourself two
podcasts I'm like we can at them I'm
like what are you doing watching Game of
Thrones but they're making fun of me for
doing yoga listening to podcasts and
when they quote say dude are you 50
years old are you 16 am I supposed to be
young are you supposed to grow up am i
hanging out with the right people
but it's ultimately what it came down to
and I realize no I wasn't these people
are not on the same intellectual level
I'm not saying a smart person but the
things that we discuss I get tired of it
because what ends up happening is you go
to a party you say hey Josh what's going
on man and he's like oh no that much how
you been oh I'm good how was work work
is good what about you Oh work is good
too awkward awkward silence very
positive all right man it's good seeing
you and that's the end of it because we
don't have anything in common
right if we were to talk about football
and Julio Jones catching a touchdown
what what does that do for us Roy best
people mmm that does nothing for me I'd
rather talk to somebody across the
entire country right in another country
that I have a common theme with yep and
yeah sure sure sure sure I mean the
other thing that's interesting with
veganism is there is actually a positive
objective for the future and that's
often lacking
Buddhism it could exist within a
particular you know but it's movement
but okay even if it's 300 years from now
we want to live in a world that isn't
built on the perpetual exploitation of
animals factory farming you know etc etc
we have this end point and we have to
work towards it you know it's not that's
like it's gonna happen without anyone
lifting a finger right so I mean that
also gives those friendships dynamism
even if it's dynamism in the midst of a
feeling of powerlessness and
hopelessness because I know let me just
due to poverty and and what-have-you a
lot of people feel they can't do
anything more for the movement you know
then they're already doing or they can't
do they can't do anything at all so yeah
I do think veganism is is a gateway to
more meaningful friendships and look you
know um in some ways I mean I'm in the
opposite category from you and someone
is in the same category so I'm I'm a
very gregarious person I'm very good at
talking thus I have 1,000 YouTube is by
I am in real life also
I don't camera so I mean I can go to
parties and I can really talk and you
know I think people don't want to invite
me to parties because it makes them feel
stupid and it makes them feel it makes
them feel like they have nothing to say
because for me even when I'm speaking
very casually like I'm not talking about
veganism or politics or something people
really do pick up on the depth of what
I'm able to do and how easy it is for me
to kind of win it I caught this way
people that get up on that you know so
it's interesting you can be a good
talker and be a person of substance who
people still don't want at that party
and they don't want to feel stupid and
they don't want to feel judged and you
know what have you so there's also a
kind of self selecting you know
stupidity and here in Canada white
english-speaking Canada most people
don't make new friends after the end of
high school they want to just stay in a
circle of people who kind of don't
question them and don't question them
and don't judge them and don't don't get
rid of that compassion yeah anyway and
I've seen contrasting cultures you know
all over the world in China people do
become friends with you but friendship
in china is almost always linked to
business so friends are a hybrid of
friend and colleague
you know which is very different from
Western culture we think of those as
very separate so you know I mean even I
was talking actually with a an Arab
friend I don't know I guess a
Palestinian for lack of a better
category friends
oh yeah ideally so I suppose that we
were talking about the contrast between
mcgrevey culture and European cultures
that's West Western Arabs or everyone
for them because in France you see that
all the time and their attitudes towards
friendship and what-have-you so it
really does vary from place to place you
know it's it's not this isn't some kind
of universal dictum but yeah you know
does veganism isolate you or does it
unite you with people you have something
meaningful in common with the answer is
both and you know yeah I see I see the
tragedy of that but as Socrates said the
unexamined life is not worth living I
don't think anyone who's vegan wants to
go back to because you can do you can
just not tell people you're vegan you
could just lie and say you're
lactose-intolerant you could just make
up an excuse when people offer you a hot
dog you know it's not it's not hard to
lie you can get used to it and you'll
see how different your life is when you
just don't tell people you're vegan and
if you think that's gonna bring
something positive into your life I you
can give that a try for a month you know
you really could instead of the 30 day
vegan challenge 30 day continue being
vegan but pretentious and you will see
just how little positive brings to your
life
sure and it plunges you back into that
undifferentiated world of trying to make
conversation about football and ice
hockey games and it came down to a point
where we had this seminar or this
gathering and one of the administrators
or the the the event creators right they
ended up asking people for food so who's
vegetarian I look around look around
right like I mean what am I gonna say
right vegan and then so my left is dr.
Richard right he's very well profound in
criminal logic criminological literature
I didn't know he was whoops I didn't
know he was vegetarian either he's been
vegetarian for 22 years we both look at
each other we're like oh I guess we're
the only two in the room they bring out
the food and they had these wraps and I
remember specifically this was the first
time I ever told anybody at school that
I was vegan a friend of mine her name is
Taylor right she looks at me she's like
I didn't know you're vegetarian and I
said oh I'm not I'm vegan it's just like
no you're not like she's denying me of
what he I said no no I'm vegan she's
like how long have you been vegan I said
March of 2016
she's like what I could have sworn I saw
you eat I'm like no yeah there's nothing
questioning what I'm eating right and I
dissected that entire rap I'm like
tomato lettuce okay no sauce no cheese
okay we're gonna put an avocado okay
we're good she's like oh is that bread
vegan God so for two years straight
nobody had known about my lifestyle
because while it was a part of me they
just don't need to know this is one of
those things mm-hmm so and in a way if I
felt like if I did tell them they would
look at me differently they probably
wouldn't have the same conversations
that we usually have which usually it's
just about some sort of article that we
read about raper
yeah controversial topic so yeah for me
for me there's a direct contrast you
know I have five Jewish heritage I don't
have Arabic heritage but I do kind of
look Arabic and there's a reason because
if you go back just some people guess
Persian for me right yeah yeah but he'd
say this but if you go back just five
thousand years Jews and Arabs were the
same people you know genetically it's
you know branches from the same tree so
it's no wonder but you know for me
there's a direct condo stream veganism
and alcohol I do not drink alcohol when
I quit during alcohol and
a long time ago but I normally in social
situations I normally don't draw
attention to that I conceal it like I
just go and get a drink like whatever it
is sprite or something yeah and you know
I just don't mention what I'm drinking
to people and they assume I am drinking
alcohol now why is that it is in some
way spirit well I don't want them to
feel judged and the reality is I do
judge them I do kind of look down on
people who you know I don't want them to
think you know I'm superior and and
they're inferior and the reality is yes
I really do think it's superior to be
sober than the drink I do believe you
know alcohol causes brain damage but
that's not the point
alcohol if you drink alcohol you are
only harming yourself if you eat meat
you are not oh so you know there is it
there is a difference I'm not an anti
alcohol activist and you know what I
could be I mean it seems unlikely I can
imagine you know much earlier this
conversation I mentioned you know
mothers against drunk driving and so on
I see how you can become passionate
about that that kind of let's put it
this way you can become a sobriety
activist I think that is a meaningful
thing to pursue but yeah for me there's
that direct contrast of not particularly
broadcasting my sobriety and on the
contrary you know openly broadcasting
the issue with veganism and letting
people know like look you can change
today you know you're not nobody was
born this way you know so this is your
decision you know what's what what's
stopping you so yeah can we wrap it up
there we're just coming up on about two
hours so the the conversation we can
maybe write it down and leave it for
next time yeah because I think that's a
good conversation to our podcast okay
wonderful watching this and have
actually reached the end or just wanted
to skip to the end I'm gonna link
aisel master's channel on the bottom
it's called Ababa Co so I'll leave a
link in the description I'll probably
upload my video later in the day so you
go now look for so share it with your
audience and if anybody I'm just gonna
put this out there so I don't seem
dishonest if anybody from your channel
wants to come and subscribe
to mine because I am a vegan channel I
am a fitness channel if they want to see
some other form of entertainment feel
free to subscribe you don't have to do
me justice sure I have always been about
promoting smaller vegan channels if you
were watching my my channels going on
more than four years I used to really
actively reach out to and collaborate
with and promote sometimes channels that
had like ten of you versus you know
really that small you know I've always
been about that and it's kind of sad to
see that in 2018 there's really a lot
less synergy there's a lot less
cooperation going on within the vegan
movement than ever and I think that
actually reflects greater pessimism than
ever people are not as optimistic that
they can just kind of make a few youtube
videos and then put together a meet-up
and get 200 people to show up at a
protest or demonstration and that is
what happens I've known channels you've
done that who got you know real life
events with 200 people turning up in
person so people do need sources of
optimism and things to be hopeful about
there is a lot to be hopeful about but
it's not money if you think you're gonna
make money on YouTube that's not what
you should be optimistic about but
everything else there were a lot of
other things motivations of the money
that are worth being optimistic about
and ultimately every political movement
is based on colleagues friendship mutual
trust association you gotta make friends
you got to get out and shake hands with
people you know at any level of politics
and the next step for vegan politics
involves a lot of people like me and
captain weiner here figuring out figure
out how much they have in common and a
little they have in common and how we
can build in that common ground so it
was great meeting you this is the first
time we ever talked in case you guys
wonder we never said one words for each
other before this is the first
conversation and let's see let's see
what we can do with the vegan move in
the next five years maybe the start of a
beautiful friendship thank you very much
bye bye